Sustainability: Meatless Mondays in Sherman Dining Hall
Spearheaded by Matt Smetana ‘17, Senator to the Class of 2017
Supported by the Senate
Meatless Monday’s was an idea we have been wanting to implement for years. It is an event where the participating dining facility, chooses not to serve meat for one day out of the week.   We chose to have this event because we wanted to reduce our meat consumption just for one night.This event about showing people that they can have a direct affect on the planet where they’d least expect it…in their diets.  Background: Livestock produce tons of greenhouse gasses, particularly in the form of methane and carbon dioxide. The production of meat is also the cause of 80% of Amazonian deforestation, and extreme runoff heading into the Gulf of Mexico.The factory farming industry is also known for the overuse of antibiotics on their animals, causing superbugs that infect tens of thousands of humans; with no antibiotics that can work, almost all the people who receive them die. Meat is also exceedingly high in saturated fats (red meat being the worst) that cause heart disease and numerous cancers. Americans are found to eat much more than the recommended amounts, so by taking a couple meals out of your week you can make an impact on not only your well-being but also on the planet.   Results: The feedback has been extremely positive. We surveyed about 2/3 of people that dined at Sherman Dining Hall on 10/5 (our first Meatless Monday) (about 300 people). The results have shown that the majority of people were very satisfied with the food and 86% of people would like to see more Meatless Mondays in the future. Being that we are a social justice institution, people understand that environmental and animal rights issues are important and we had numerous vegetarians and vegans voicing their appreciation for having numerous options for the first time since coming to Brandeis. But the majority of people are not vegetarian/vegan yet they enjoyed it as well! 
